
(PAGE 30) 1x2 call spreads are useful whena  bounce-back is expected.

(PAGE 30) Single -stock implied volatlity trades more in line with realised volatility
than index imlieds. The reason why index implieds are more overpriced than single-stock
implieds is due to the demand from hedgers and structured product sellers.

(PAGE 34) Enhanced call overwriting is the term given when call overwriting is only done 
opportunistically or the parameters (strike or expiry) are varied according to market 
conditions. On the index level, the returns from call overwriting are so high that enhanced 
call overwriting is difficult, as the opportunity cost from not always overwriting is too high. 
For single stocks, the returns for call overwriting are less impressive; hence, enhanced call 
overwriting could be more successful. An example of single-stock enhanced call overwriting 
is to only overwrite when an implied is high compared to peers in the same sector. We note 
that even with enhanced single-stock call overwriting, the wider bid-offer cost and smaller 
implied volatility premium to realised means returns can be lower than call overwriting at the 
index level.

(PAGE 59) Assuming all other inputs are constant, the payout of a delta-hedged option is based on
the variance. However, when examining how much carry is earned, or lost, when delta hedging an option,
it is the difference between realised and implied that matters. This is because the gamma of an option
is proportional to 1/sigma; hence, if volatlitiy doubles the gamma halves. 

(PAGE 65) Dispersion traders profit from overpriced index-implied volatility by going long single-stock
variance and short index variance.

(PAGE 71) If clients are net buyers of variance swaps, they leave the counterparty trader short. The trader
will hedge this short position by buying a portfolio of options and delta hedging them on the close. Hence
variance buying suppresses equity market moves whereas variance selling exaggerates equity market moves. 

(PAGE 112) While forward starting products have zero mathematical theta, they do suffer from the fact that
volatility and variance term structure is usually expensive and upward sloping. The average implied volatility
of a forward starting product is likely to be higher than a vanilla product, which will cause the long forward
starting position to suffer carry as the volatility is re-marked lower during the forward starting period. 

(PAGE 138) While the ratio of beta to roll-down cost is similar across different maturity volatility products,
near-dated products do have a worse ratio. There are some products that try to benefit from the excess demand
for near 1-month ETN/ETFs (medium-dated 5-month ETN/ETFs are less popular)

(PAGE 139) Given the imbalance in the VIX futures market resulting from the size of ETN/ETF
products for near-dated VIX products, investors could short these products. The XXV ETF 
(inverse of the VXX, whose ticker is also the letters of the VXX backwards) based on short 
1-month VIX futures is also a viable method of profiting from this imbalance. As the size of 
the XXV is only c20% of the size of the VXX, a significant imbalance still remains in our
view. As vStoxx-based products are not sufficiently large to be causing an imbalance, a short 
VIX product long vStoxx product is an attractive way to profit from the VIX imbalance 
while hedging the overall level of volatility (we note that this trade does not hedge any US or 
Europe specific volatility). As can be seen in Figure 77 below, the profile of 1m vStoxx/1m 
VIX (proxy for long 1m vStoxx and short 1m VIX rebalanced every day) offers an attractive 
performance.

(PAGE 170) Single-stock relative value volatility trading is possible, but less attractive due to wider
bid-offer spreads.

(PAGE 173) The volatility of an index is capped at the weighted average volatility of its 
constituents. Due to diversification (or less than 100% correlation), the volatility of 
indices tends to trade significantly less than its constituents. The flow from both 
institutions and structured products tends to put upward pressure on implied 
correlation, making index implied volatility expensive. Hedge funds and proprietary 
trading desks try to profit from this anomaly by either selling correlation swaps, or 
through dispersion trading (going short index implied volatility and long single stock 
implied volatility). Selling correlation became an unpopular strategy following losses 
during the credit crunch, but demand is now recovering.

(PAGE 182) We believe that using OTM strangles rather than straddles is a better method of using vanilla 
options to trade dispersion as OTM strangles have a flatter vega profile. This means that spot moving  
away from strike is less of an issue, but we acknowledge that this is a less practical way 
of trading. 

(PAGE 193) They have an intuitive way of calculating expected earnings jump using additive variance.

(PAGE 203) A decline in near dated ATM implied volatility lifts term structure and skew as low strike
and long maturity implied volatility is 'sticky'. Hence skew and term structure should be correlated
as a fall in near-dated ATM implied lifts both of them.

(PAGE 204) There's a lot of intuition about the risks and correlations of dispersion trading with other positions
throughout the book.

(PAGE 205) When implied volatility changes, the change in ATM volatility multiplied by the square root of time is generally constant.

(PAGE 206) In practice, implied volatility tends to move with power 0.44, suggesting that surfaces move primarily 
in a square root of time manner but at times also in parallel. 
If implieds rise (or decline) in a square root of time manner when equities decline (or rise),
then this causes skew to decay by the square root of time as well (assuming sticky strike)
This means that the skews of different maturities can be compared with each other by simply multiplying the skew by the square root of the maturity.

(PAGE 210) Given that the square root of time appears in the Black-Scholes formula for premium,
the price of a 1x1 calendar (long one far-dated option, short one near-dated option) remains approximately constant 
if implied volatility surfaces move in a square root of time manner. 
Calendars can therefore be used to trade term structure imbalances as the trade is indifferent
to the level of volatility as long as volatility moves in a power weighted manner.

(PAGE 211) If surfaces rise with a power less than 0.5 (ie, a more parallel move) then near-dated implieds 
have not risen as much as expected and a short calendar (long near-dated, short far-dated) 
position should be initiated. 

(PAGE 219) Both Strike skew (90%vol-110%vol) and Delta Skew (25 Delta Put Vol -25 Delta Call Vol)/50 Delta Vol 
are reasonable measures of skew.

(PAGE 222) Sticky delta assumes a constant volatility for options of the same strike as a percentage of spot.
Not a particularly realistic model. A sticky volatility surface has a constant volatility for options with the
same fixed currency strike. Sticky local vol assumes negative vol-spot correlation. The reality is somewhere in
between sticky delta and sticky local vol.

(PAGE 233) While a sticky local volatility regime causes long skew positions to profit from implied volatility changes,
the position still suffers from skew theta.
The combination of these two cancel exactly, causing a long (or short) skew trade to break even.
As skew trades break even under a static local volatility model, and as there is a negative spot vol correlation,
it is arguably the most realistic volatility model.

(PAGE 249) Intraday volatility is not constant. 
Volatility tends to be greatest at the open, but also rises into the close.

(PAGE 251) Among different realized volatility measures, 
Yang-Zhang seem to be more efficient for small window size calculations.

(PAGE 266) Price of a put spread cannot be negative, this will enforce a limit on how expensive the skew could be.
Traders are likely to sell skew long before it hits the mathematical bounds for arbitrage.
As mathematical bound decays by the square root of time, so should the market bound.

[DONE]